---
title: "Dual Moving Average Pseudo-Labeling for Source-Free Inductive Domain Adaptation"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-BMVC
excerpt: 
illustration: /images/2022-BMVC.pdf
date: 2022-11-01
venue: 'BMVC'
paperurl: 'https://bmvc2022.mpi-inf.mpg.de/0965.pdf'
citation: Hao Yan, Yuhong Guo. Dual Moving Average Pseudo-Labeling for Source-Free Inductive Domain Adaptation. BMVC 2022.
---
Unsupervised domain adaptation reduces the reliance on data annotation in deep
learning by adapting knowledge from a source to a target domain. For privacy and efficiency concerns, source-free domain adaptation extends unsupervised domain adaptation
by adapting a pre-trained source model to an unlabeled target domain without accessing
the source data. However, most existing source-free domain adaptation methods to date
focus on the transductive setting, where the target training set is also the testing set. In this
paper, we address source-free domain adaptation in the more realistic inductive setting,
where the target training and testing sets are mutually exclusive. We propose a new semisupervised fine-tuning method named Dual Moving Average Pseudo-Labeling (DMAPL)
for source-free inductive domain adaptation. We first split the unlabeled training set in
the target domain into a pseudo-labeled confident subset and an unlabeled less-confident
subset according to the prediction confidence scores from the pre-trained source model.
Then we propose a soft-label moving-average updating strategy for the unlabeled subset based on a moving-average prototypical classifier, which gradually adapts the source
model towards the target domain. Experiments show that our proposed method achieves
state-of-the-art performance and outperforms previous methods by large margins.